.. _fcc-paracrystal:

Fcc paracrystal
=======================================================

Face-centred cubic lattic with paracrystalline distortion

=========== ================================== ============ =============
Parameter   Description                        Units        Default value
=========== ================================== ============ =============
scale       Source intensity                   None                     1
background  Source background                  |cm^-1|                  0
dnn         Nearest neighbour distance         |Ang|                  220
d_factor    Paracrystal distortion factor      None                  0.06
radius      Particle radius                    |Ang|                   40
sld         Particle scattering length density |1e-6Ang^-2|             4
solvent_sld Solvent scattering length density  |1e-6Ang^-2|             1
theta       In plane angle                     degree                  60
phi         Out of plane angle                 degree                  60
psi         Out of plane angle                 degree                  60
=========== ================================== ============ =============

The returned value is scaled to units of |cm^-1|.


Calculates the scattering from a **face-centered cubic lattice** with
paracrystalline distortion. Thermal vibrations are considered to be
negligible, and the size of the paracrystal is infinitely large.
Paracrystalline distortion is assumed to be isotropic and characterized by
a Gaussian distribution.

The returned value is scaled to units of |cm^-1|\ |sr^-1|, absolute scale.

Definition
----------

The scattering intensity *I(q)* is calculated as

.. image:: img/image158.jpg

where *scale* is the volume fraction of spheres, *Vp* is the volume of
the primary particle, *V(lattice)* is a volume correction for the crystal
structure, *P(q)* is the form factor of the sphere (normalized), and *Z(q)*
is the paracrystalline structure factor for a face-centered cubic structure.

Equation (1) of the 1990 reference is used to calculate *Z(q)*, using
equations (23)-(25) from the 1987 paper for *Z1*\ , *Z2*\ , and *Z3*\ .

The lattice correction (the occupied volume of the lattice) for a
face-centered cubic structure of particles of radius *R* and nearest
neighbor separation *D* is

.. image:: img/image159.jpg

The distortion factor (one standard deviation) of the paracrystal is
included in the calculation of *Z(q)*

.. image:: img/image160.jpg

where *g* is a fractional distortion based on the nearest neighbor distance.

The face-centered cubic lattice is

.. image:: img/image161.jpg

For a crystal, diffraction peaks appear at reduced q-values given by

.. image:: img/image162.jpg

where for a face-centered cubic lattice *h*\ , *k*\ , *l* all odd or all
even are allowed and reflections where *h*\ , *k*\ , *l* are mixed odd/even
are forbidden. Thus the peak positions correspond to (just the first 5)

.. image:: img/image163.jpg

**NB: The calculation of** *Z(q)* **is a double numerical integral that
must be carried out with a high density of** **points to properly capture
the sharp peaks of the paracrystalline scattering.** So be warned that the
calculation is SLOW. Go get some coffee. Fitting of any experimental data
must be resolution smeared for any meaningful fit. This makes a triple
integral. Very, very slow. Go get lunch!

This example dataset is produced using 200 data points, *qmin* = 0.01 |Ang^-1|,
*qmax* = 0.1 |Ang^-1| and the above default values.

.. image:: img/image164.jpg

*Figure. 1D plot in the linear scale using the default values (w/200 data point).*

The 2D (Anisotropic model) is based on the reference below where *I(q)* is
approximated for 1d scattering. Thus the scattering pattern for 2D may not
be accurate. Note that we are not responsible for any incorrectness of the
2D model computation.

.. image:: img/image165.gif

.. image:: img/image166.jpg

*Figure. 2D plot using the default values (w/200X200 pixels).*

REFERENCE

Hideki Matsuoka et. al. *Physical Review B*, 36 (1987) 1754-1765
(Original Paper)

Hideki Matsuoka et. al. *Physical Review B*, 41 (1990) 3854 -3856
(Corrections to FCC and BCC lattice structure calculation)

